Introduce a deck.gl Example (#17)
emissions-api/emissions-api.github.com: example-deck.gl.md

    '6.589396599970826,51.852029120483394,' +
    '6.842869500362383,52.22844025329755,' +
    '7.092053256873896,53.14404328064489,' +
    '6.905139601274129,53.48216217713064,' +
    '7.100424838905268,53.69393219666267,' +
    '7.936239454793962,53.74829580343379,' +
    '8.121706170289485,53.52779246684429,' +
    '8.800734490604668,54.020785630908904,' +
    '8.572117954145368,54.39564647075405,' +
    '8.526229282270208,54.96274363872516,' +
    '9.282048780971136,54.83086538351631,' +
    '9.921906365609232,54.983104153048025';

// API URL
const API_URL = 'https://demo.emissions-api.org/api/v1/geo.json?' +
    GERMANY + '&begin=2019-02-04&end=2019-02-06';

new deck.DeckGL({
    container: 'container',
    mapboxApiAccessToken: 'pk.eyJ1Ijoic2hhYXJkaWUiLCJhIjoiY2szbjlicnE0MHVoYzNjdDV2am10aW1lcSJ9.5bevFIGGAqXzH5hZX3EQWQ',
    mapStyle: "mapbox://styles/mapbox/dark-v9",
    longitude: 10,
    latitude: 50,
    zoom: 5,
    pitch: 50,
    layers: [
        new deck.HexagonLayer({
            extruded: true,
            radius: 5000,
            data: API_URL,
            dataTransform: d => d.features,
            elevationScale: 100,

>             getColorValue: points => points.map(d => d.properties.carbonmonoxide).reduce((a, b) => a + b, 0) / points.length,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            getColorValue: points => points.reduce((sum, point) => sum + point.properties.carbonmonoxide, 0) / points.length,
```

> Plotting CO-Values using deck.gl

Reviewer 2: I would suggest a bit more explicit title:
```suggestion
Plotting carbon monoxide concentrations on a map using deck.gl
```

================================

> In this example we explain how to use [deck.gl](https://deck.gl/#/),

Reviewer 2: Instead of commas, I would suggest hyphens for the parenthesis in the middle of the phrase.

Author: @tibroc Why are hyphens better than commas? And where would I find it on my German keyboard? ;)

Reviewer: For consistency, you actually want an en-dash and no hyphen. The location depends on your keyboard layout. For the `nodeadkeys` variant of the German keyboard layout, you can use `Alt Gr` + `-`. With a compose key, this would be `compose - - .` (Fedora default settings). You can also just copy this: `–`

…and it's mostly a question of style.

Reviewer 2: So, if we agree on en-dashes (which would be okay for me), I find that they distinguish the insertion more clearly from the main phrase which – at least for me – improves legibility. I would see the main effect using actual parentheses, although in a more timid way.

Author: I copied @lkiesow's en-dash and changed it.

> a WebGL-powered framework for data visualization created by [Uber](https://www.uber.com),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a WebGL-powered framework for data visualization created by [Uber](https://uber.com),
```

Author: @lkiesow  https://uber.com is redirected to https://www.uber.com. Would you still use https://uber.com?

```bash
curl -v https://uber.com
...
< HTTP/2 301 
< location: https://www.uber.com/
...
```

Reviewer: No strong feelings but I tend to prefer using the main domain name instead of a subdomain whenever possible as long as it gets me where I want

to visualize the amount of carbon monoxide in Germany from a couple of days.

> The result should look somewhat like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The result will look somewhat like this:
```

<style type="text/css">
      #container {width: 100%; height: 500px;}
    </style>

> <div id="container"></div>

Reviewer: If you use inline-styles anyway, why not simply:

```html
<div id="container" style="height: 500px;"></div>
```

…omitting the `width: 100%;` since that should be the default for block display elements.

Author: Fixed that. I thought deck.gl would override the `div` and with it the inline style.

We are mostly following the [scripting get-started](https://github.com/uber/deck.gl/blob/7.3-release/examples/get-started/scripting/mapbox/index.html) from deck.gl.

## GeoJSON Data

Let's take a look at the data first.

> We request all measured carbon monoxide values from Germany from the fourth and fifth of February (this time span is arbitrary chosen) using the [geo.json](https://demo.emissions-api.org/ui/#/default/emissionsapi.web.get_data) API endpoint and the url query parameters *begin*, *end* and *polygon*:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We request all measured carbon monoxide values from Germany from – let's say – the fourth and fifth of February using the [geo.json](https://demo.emissions-api.org/ui/#/default/emissionsapi.web.get_data) API endpoint and the URL query parameters *begin*, *end* and *polygon*:
```

> We request all measured carbon monoxide values from Germany from the fourth and fifth of February (this time span is arbitrary chosen) using the [geo.json](https://demo.emissions-api.org/ui/#/default/emissionsapi.web.get_data) API endpoint and the url query parameters *begin*, *end* and *polygon*:

Reviewer: An alternative way forward:
```suggestion
For this example, we request all measured carbon monoxide values from Germany from February 04-05, 2019 using the [geo.json](https://demo.emissions-api.org/ui/#/default/emissionsapi.web.get_data) API endpoint and the URL query parameters `begin`, `end` and `polygon`:
```

```
https://demo.emissions-api.org/api/v1/geo.json
    ?begin=2019-02-04
    &end=2019-02-06

>     &polygon=9.921906365609232,54.983104153048025,9.9395797054529,54.596641954153256,…,9.921906365609232,54.983104153048025

Reviewer: If it's the bounding box of Germany anyway:
```suggestion
    &country=DE
```

Author: It is not a bounding box. It is a polygon describing the vague form of Germany. Maybe we can change this later, if `DE` not describing a rectangle anymore. I limited the number of points here in the array. Below in the code example there is the full polygon.

```

We are using the *polygon* url query parameter to receive carbon monoxide values from within the border of Germany.

> Further, note that the end date is excluded in the query.

Reviewer: I know what you are trying to say, but the end date is present in the query ;-p

Author: I copied your explanation :smile:

The response should look like this:

```json
{
  "features": [
    {
      "geometry": {
        "coordinates": [
          14.129653,
          53.374462
        ],
        "type": "Point"
      },
      "properties": {
        "carbonmonoxide": 0.0349522158503532,
        "timestamp": "2019-02-05T11:21:47.923000Z"
      },
      "type": "Feature"
    },
    {
      "geometry": {
        "coordinates": [
          13.63431,
          53.800873
        ],
        "type": "Point"
      },
      "properties": {
        "carbonmonoxide": 0.0341427326202393,
        "timestamp": "2019-02-05T11:21:56.562000Z"
      },
      "type": "Feature"
    },
    …
  ],

>   "type": "FeatureCollection"

Reviewer: Just wondering if we can get less red warnings by closing the outermost bracket?

```

> What we get here is a standardized [GeoJSON FeatureCollection](https://geojson.org/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The result is a [GeoJSON FeatureCollection](https://geojson.org).
```

GeoJSON objects are often used for handling geographic data structures and are supported by a variety of different tools.

## Requesting Data

> After we now know how the data is structured and where we can find it, we have to think about how we get it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
So now that we know how the data is structured and where we can find it, we have to figure out how to retrieve it.
```

> Luckily enough, the deck.gl object we are using later is able to use the URL and handle the request itself.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Luckily enough, the deck.gl object we will be using later is able to handle the request itself and just take the URL as a parameter.
```

Reviewer: *But fortunately…*

So we only have to construct the URL:

```javascript
// A polygon describing the vague form of Germany
const GERMANY = 'polygon=9.921906365609232,54.983104153048025,' +
    '9.9395797054529,54.596641954153256,' +
    '10.950112338920519,54.363607082733154,' +
    …
    '8.526229282270208,54.96274363872516,' +
    '9.282048780971136,54.83086538351631,' +
    '9.921906365609232,54.983104153048025';

// API URL
const API_URL = 'https://demo.emissions-api.org/api/v1/geo.json?' +
    GERMANY + '&begin=2019-02-04&end=2019-02-06';
```

## Plotting Data

> We are using the [Mapbox](https://www.mapbox.com/) support, deck.gl offers, and use Mapbox as the base map for our plot.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
deck.gl offers [Mapbox](https://www.mapbox.com/) support and we will use it for the base map of our plot.
```

> Therefore we have to include the Mapbox script and stylesheet:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Therefore, we have to include the Mapbox script and stylesheet:
```

```html
<script src='https://api.tiles.mapbox.com/mapbox-gl-js/v0.53.0/mapbox-gl.js'></script>
<link href='https://api.tiles.mapbox.com/mapbox-gl-js/v0.53.0/mapbox-gl.css' rel='stylesheet' />
```

> and generate a [Mapbox Token](https://docs.mapbox.com/help/how-mapbox-works/access-tokens/) for later use.

Reviewer 2: Maybe just mention the token creation when you actually use it.

Author: Here mapbox is included, so I think this it is a good place to talk about this token. Otherwise you talk about specific JavaScript code later and then say: *Ah by the way, you have to go to this web service, make a account and create a token*.

> Deck.gl itself offers a JavaScript scripting interface,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
deck.gl itself offers a [JavaScript scripting interface](https://deck.gl/#/documentation/deckgl-api-reference/scripting-interface/deckgl).
```

see [DeckGL (Scripting Interface)](https://deck.gl/#/documentation/deckgl-api-reference/scripting-interface/deckgl).

> To use this we additional include:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use this we additionally include:
```

```html
<script src="https://unpkg.com/deck.gl@latest/dist.min.js"></script>
```

We also need to define a HTML-container used from deck.gl to work on:

```html

> <style type="text/css">

Reviewer: Same as before. Why this weird style block?

      #container {width: 100%; height: 500px;}
</style>
<div id="container"></div>

<script src="https://unpkg.com/deck.gl@latest/dist.min.js"></script>
```

Now we can start to write our JavaScript code.

> Deck.gl will combine points in the same hexagon to an array and let the user define how the elevation and color of this hexagon is calculated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
deck.gl will combine points in the same hexagon and lets you define how elevation and color of this hexagon is calculated.
```

> We choose to use the average of all points in a hexagon for this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this example, we use the average carbon monoxide amount of all points in a hexagon for this.
```

So we need a small helper function:

```javascript
// Helper function to calculate the average value

> function average(numbers) {

Reviewer: maybe
```js
return numbers.reduce((a,b) => a + b, 0) / numbers.length
```

    let total = 0;
    for (let i = 0; i < numbers.length; i += 1) {
        total += numbers[i];
    }
    return total / numbers.length;
}
```

Now let's define the visualization layer we have seen above:

```javascript
new deck.HexagonLayer({
    extruded: true,
    radius: 5000,
    data: API_URL,
    dataTransform: d => d.features,
    elevationScale: 100,

>     getColorValue: points => average(points.map(d => d.properties.carbonmonoxide)),

Reviewer: If we do a mapping anyway, maybe move this into the average method?

Author: Because I did not know how :smile:

Reviewer: JavaScript arrow functions are basically just Python lambdas.
So we should be able to just set `getColorValue` to a function accepting points.

    getElevationValue: points => average(points.map(d => d.properties.carbonmonoxide)),
    getPosition: d => d.geometry.coordinates,
}),
```

> We can give the API URL directly to the *HexagonLayer* and can extract the array of the different points with *dataTransform*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can pass the API URL directly to the *HexagonLayer* and can extract the array of the different points with *dataTransform*.
```

With *getPosition* we calculate the coordinates for every point and with *getElevationValue* and *getColorValue* we can directly map the array of points in a hexagon to its elevation and color.

> For a closer look, see [API Reference HexagonLayer](https://deck.gl/#/documentation/deckgl-api-reference/layers/hexagon-layer).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more details, see [API Reference HexagonLayer](https://deck.gl/#/documentation/deckgl-api-reference/layers/hexagon-layer).
```

> At last we create the *DeckGL* scripting object:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, we create the *DeckGL* scripting object:
```

```javascript
new deck.DeckGL({
    container: 'container',
    mapboxApiAccessToken: '<your mapbox token>',
    mapStyle: "mapbox://styles/mapbox/dark-v9",
    longitude: 10,
    latitude: 50,
    zoom: 5,
    pitch: 50,
    layers: [
        …
    ]
});
```

Most parameters control the initial view and the underlying map.
*container* is the HTML-element we defined earlier and the visualization layers are in *layers*.

> For details about the different parameter, take a look at [API Reference for DeckGL](https://deck.gl/#/documentation/deckgl-api-reference/scripting-interface/deckgl).

Reviewer 3: *parameters

> For details about the different parameter, take a look at [API Reference for DeckGL](https://deck.gl/#/documentation/deckgl-api-reference/scripting-interface/deckgl).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For details about the different parameters, take a look at [API Reference for DeckGL](https://deck.gl/#/documentation/deckgl-api-reference/scripting-interface/deckgl).
```

## Bringing It All Together

Finally, let’s take all the parts and bring them together.

For this, we can just copy most of the code we already have.

### HTML

```html
<script src='https://api.tiles.mapbox.com/mapbox-gl-js/v0.53.0/mapbox-gl.js'></script>
<link href='https://api.tiles.mapbox.com/mapbox-gl-js/v0.53.0/mapbox-gl.css' rel='stylesheet' />
<script src="https://unpkg.com/deck.gl@latest/dist.min.js"></script>

<style type="text/css">
      #container {width: 100%; height: 500px;}
</style>
<div id="container"></div>
```

### JavaScript

```javascript
// A polygon describing the vague form of Germany
const GERMANY = 'polygon=9.921906365609232,54.983104153048025,' +

>     '9.9395797054529,54.596641954153256,' +

Reviewer: Can we get/provide this as a JS library? 😸

Author: I am not aware of one, but we should take a look.

Author: At a first glance, I did not find a JavaScript library for that, but I did not look very hard. Since this is probably temporary (as far as I know @benszau is creating a patch for that), I would suggest leaving it like that.

    '8.526229282270208,54.96274363872516,' +
    '9.282048780971136,54.83086538351631,' +
    '9.921906365609232,54.983104153048025';

// API URL
const API_URL = 'https://demo.emissions-api.org/api/v1/geo.json?' +
    GERMANY + '&begin=2019-02-04&end=2019-02-06';

// Helper function to calculate the average value
function average(numbers) {
    let total = 0;
    for (let i = 0; i < numbers.length; i += 1) {
        total += numbers[i];
    }
    return total / numbers.length;
}

new deck.DeckGL({
    container: 'container',
    mapboxApiAccessToken: '<your mapbox token>',
    mapStyle: "mapbox://styles/mapbox/dark-v9",
    longitude: 10,
    latitude: 50,
    zoom: 5,
    pitch: 50,
    layers: [
        new deck.HexagonLayer({
            extruded: true,
            radius: 5000,
            data: API_URL,
            dataTransform: d => d.features,
            elevationScale: 100,
            getColorValue: points => average(points.map(d => d.properties.carbonmonoxide)),
            getElevationValue: points => average(points.map(d => d.properties.carbonmonoxide)),
            getPosition: d => d.geometry.coordinates,
        }),
    ]
});
```

> That's it!

Reviewer 2: Maybe instead of this last phrase, you could link to a file that contains the example code and encourage playing around with it. Something along the lines of:
'Now go ahead and fork the example code `[here](some/git/example)` to start having fun with the code yourself!'

Reviewer: I like the idea but I hate it if people use `here` links. So, maybe:

```
Now go ahead and [fork the example](some/git/example) to start having fun with the code yourself.
```

Author: Good idea, maybe we should add that, if/when we have a repository with example :smile:

Reviewer 2: I will set up an example repository and we can than change this last phrase. For now I would resolve this conversation in order to not delay merging until thursday.
